Artificial Intelligence - Ⅰ
================

- Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a multidisciplinary field aiming to create intelligent agents capable of performing tasks that typically require human cognitive abilities.

- It encompasses various subfields, including machine learning, which addresses the challenges of uncertainty in data and involves techniques like supervised and unsupervised learning.

Uncertainty in AI
----------------

- Uncertainty is inherent in real-world data and AI applications due to factors such as incomplete information, noise, and variability.

- Dealing with uncertainty is crucial to making informed decisions.

- Probabilistic models are employed to represent and manage uncertainty, enabling AI systems to reason under conditions of ambiguity.

Machine Learning
----------------

- Machine learning is a subset of AI that focuses on developing algorithms and models that allow computers to learn from data and improve their performance over time.

- It plays a pivotal role in handling uncertainty and making predictions based on patterns and trends within the data.

Supervised Learning
----------------

- Supervised learning involves training a model on a labeled dataset, where inputs are associated with corresponding desired outputs.

- The model learns to map inputs to outputs by generalizing from the training examples.

- This enables the model to make accurate predictions on new, unseen data. Common applications include image recognition, language translation, and medical diagnosis.

Unsupervised Learning
----------------

- Unsupervised learning deals with unlabeled data, where the model aims to discover patterns, relationships, and structures within the data.

- Clustering and dimensionality reduction are prominent tasks within unsupervised learning.

- Clustering groups similar data points together, while dimensionality reduction reduces the complexity of data while retaining essential information.

- These techniques are valuable for tasks like customer segmentation, anomaly detection, and data visualization.

