BackgroundNet Coding Explanation
=================================

Major Functionalities
----------------------

For our background subtraction task, we use NVIDIA's Python program called ``backgroundnet.py``.
 The program performs three major functions:

1.  It manages input streams whether it is an image, a video or a camera.
2.  It manages network inference on the said input stream.
3.  It manages output stream along with overlaying results from the model. 

With our python program, the user must specify 

1.  The input stream medium. (whether to input an image, a video or a camera)
2.  Which model network to use for the inference. 
3.  The output stream medium. (whether to output an image, a video or a camera)


-   In our ``background_camera.ipynb``, we first initialize the PATH for our input and output images.
-   We set up Jupyter environment variables with ``env`` as well as Python variables.

    .. code-block:: python

        %env DISPLAY=:0
        %env PROGRAM_PATH=/home/zeta/jetson-inference/build/aarch64/bin
        %env INPUT_PATH=/home/zeta/jetson-inference/build/aarch64/bin/images
        %env OUTPUT_PATH=/home/zeta/jetson-inference/build/aarch64/bin/images/test

        input_path='/home/zeta/jetson-inference/build/aarch64/bin/images'
        output_path='/home/zeta/jetson-inference/build/aarch64/bin/images/test'

    By setting up environment variables, we can call upon these PATH variables, when we wish to run a shell command 
    within our jupyter notebook. 

-   After choosing and initializing the name of our input images we can see that the ``IMAGE_NAME`` variable is also being 
    set to be an environment variable. 

-   When we execute our python program (backgroundnet.py), we can see the three parameters the user has set up

    .. code-block:: python

        !python3 $PROGRAM_PATH/backgroundnet.py --network=u2net $INPUT_PATH/$IMAGE_NAME $OUTPUT_PATH/$OUTPUT_NAME1

    With ``!python3 $PROGRAM_PATH/backgroundnet.py`` as our activation function, we have:
    
    1.  ``--network=u2net``: to specify which network we wished to use.
    2.  ``$INPUT_PATH/$IMAGE_NAME``: to specify our input image location.
    3.  ``$OUTPUT_PATH/$OUTPUT_NAME``: to specify our output image location. 


-   Jupyter notebook allows us view images within our browser environment. For this we have used IPython library with display module. 

    .. code-block:: python

        from IPython.display import Image
    
    -   To view the images simply specify the location of the image. For example, to view the result of our inference:

        .. code-block:: python 

           Image(filename=output_path+'/background_remove.jpg') 


Minor Functionalities
----------------------

There are optional flags or parameters you may set up for your ``backgroundnet.py`` program.
These parameters may control the replacement of the background.

There are 2 minor functionalities you may edit:

1.  ``--network``: This parameter allows us to choose which network we wish to use. (for this case, the default is "u2net")
2.  ``--replace``: This parameter allows us to specify an image filename to use for background replacement.


For example, to replace the background with a specific image, you can use the following command:

    .. code-block:: python

        !python3 $PROGRAM_PATH/backgroundnet.py --network=u2net --replace=$INPUT_PATH/Ulleung_0.jpg $INPUT_PATH/$IMAGE_NAME $OUTPUT_PATH/$OUTPUT_NAME2

In this command, the ``--replace=$INPUT_PATH/Ulleung_0.jpg`` parameter specifies the image to be used as the new background.